

CI/CD Pipelines are aimed to Automate developers workflows

Continious Integration(CI): 
	
	-Integrates Code changes from multiple developers into a shared repositary frequently

	-CI Pipeline automatically build and test the code whenever changes are pushed to repositary, this 

		ensures codebase remains in working state and helps integeration issues catch early

Continuous Deployement(CD):

	- CD automatically deploying code to production or ther environments after passing through CI Pipeline


Both CI and CD Pipelines are essential for modern software development practices


-Continous Delivery vs Continous Deployement:
--------------------------------------------

In Contious Delivery, Application is built, tested and ready to release, which requires human intervention to approve release to production (Button Click)

In Continuous Deployement, Application is built, tested and will go to production automatically without any approval 

Choosing one among both depends on amount of expertise and risk



CI/CD Tools:
------------

There are many CI/CD tools available based on its unique features and streanths

Some of them are

	Jenkins
	GitHub Actions
	GitLab CI/CD
	CircleCI
	AzurePipelines
	AWS CodePipelines
	Bamboo
	GoCD

	etc.



	Jenkins
	---------

Jenkins is Open Source automated server which is Used for CI/CD

Jenkins is a CI/CD Tool

Automates Build and Deployement Process


Environments:
-------------

While application developing to go live, we will have multiple environments those are

1. Dev Env
	
	where development happens

2. QA Env
	
	Quality Assurance Testing
	Testing Environment

3. UAT Env

	User Acceptance Testing

4. Pilot Env(Pre Production)

	Performance Testing

5. Production Env

	Application Live for Client Usage


Above environment are optional and solely depends upon project and its use cases

	
	

Tomcat Server:
--------------

Tomcat primilary used for deploying web applications which packed as WAR

we have two ways to deploy

1. Manully copy WAR file into 'webapps' directory
2. Tomcat Manager web application (need to configure username and password)



JENKINS(Udemy)
---------------

After Installation, if manually wanted to start, stop or restart jenkins

Open CMD in Jenkins directory (C:\Program Files\Jenkins\)

	1. To Start Jenkins Server : jenkins.exe start
	2. To Stop Jenkins Server : jenkins.exe stop
	3. To Restart : jenkins.exe restart

We Can access Jenkins from 'http://localhost:8080'


username: admin
password: anil1234

- We can also start jenkins by opening cmd in Jenkins Directory

	CMD> java -jar jenkins.war

	To change port
	CMD> java -jar jenkins.war --httpPort=8081

