
1.

I am a dedicated software professional with around 3 years of experince and having robust skill set that includes Java 8, Spring Framework, Spring Boot, JavaScript, React Js, Hibernate, MySQL, MongoDB, Maven, Git, Docker, Jenkins, Swagger. I have developed several mini full-stack projects to enhance my understanding of these technologies comprehensively.

I am passionate about problem-solving using Data Structures and Algorithms (DSA) and hold a 5-star golden badge for problem-solving on HackerRank.

Committed to continuous improvement, I strive to sharpen my skills every day to become a better developer.

HTML, CSS, JavaScript, React JS, Java, Spring Framework, Spring Boot, Hibernate, SQL, MySQL, and Maven

----------------------------
Summary:

A skilled Java Developer with 3 years of experience in developing robust and scalable applications using Java and Spring Boot, Proficient in implementing unit tests using JUnit and Mockito to ensure code quality and reliability, Experienced in CI/CD and code quality monitoring with GitLab and SonarQube and cloud services on AWS

Technical Skills
Programming Languages: Java
Frameworks: Spring Boot, Spring MVC, Spring Data, Spring Security
Testing Tools: JUnit, Mockito
Code Quality & CI/CD: SonarQube, GitLab CI/CD
Databases: Cassandra DB, MySQL, PostgreSQL
Cloud Platforms: AWS (EC2, S3, RDS, Lambda)
Version Control: Git, GitLab
Build Tools: Maven, Gradle
Other Tools: Docker, Kubernetes, Jenkins

Experince:
TCS
1. Developed and maintained high-performance microservices using Java and Spring Boot
2. Implemented RESTful APIs ensuring seamless data flow 
3. Enhanced code quality by writing unit tests using JUnit and Mockito, achieving over 90% code coverage
4. Participated in code reviews, providing feedback and suggestions to improve code quality and adhere to best practices

Virtusa
1. Developed and Maintained an Automated Loan Processing System
2. Analyzed Functional Specifications and Created Detailed Programming Specifications
3. Designed and Implemented Unit Tests Aligned with Requirements



CANVA:
------
Summary:
A skilled Java Developer with 3 years of experience in developing robust and scalable applications using Java and Spring Boot, Proficient in implementing unit tests using JUnit and Mockito to ensure code quality and reliability, Experienced in CI/CD and code quality monitoring with GitLab and SonarQube and cloud services on AWS

Experince

TCS
Developed and maintained high-performance microservices using Java and Spring Boot.
Implemented RESTful APIs ensuring seamless data flow.
Enhanced code quality by writing unit tests using JUnit and Mockito, achieving over 90% code coverage.

Virtusa
Developed and Maintained an Automated Loan Processing System.
Analyzed Functional Specifications and Created Detailed Programming Specifications.
Designed and Implemented Unit Tests Aligned with Requirements.
